blog/2025-08-21-map-date-thu-aug-21-2025-20-21-28-gmt-0200-közép-európai-nyári-idő-title_hu-a-tökéletes-prompt-titka-a-fókuszálás-művészete-fő-téma-body_hu-startfragment-n-na-legutóbbi-cikkünkben-már-meséltem-a-promptok-felé.md, before:

---
title_hu: "A tökéletes prompt titka: A fókuszálás művészete (Fő téma)"
title_en: "The Secret to the Perfect Prompt: The Art of Focusing (Main Subject)"
date: 2025-08-21T18:21:28.491Z
image: /src/blog-images/logofejlec.png
body_hu: >-
  <!--StartFragment-->


  A legutóbbi cikkünkben már meséltem a promptok felépítéséről, de most merüljünk el egy kicsit mélyebben a legfontosabb elemében: a **fő témában**. Ez a kép legfontosabb eleme, erre fókuszál az AI. Mit akarsz látni? Legyen egyértelmű és lényegre törő.


  Ha azt szeretnéd, hogy az AI a lehető legpontosabban a lényegre fókuszáljon, elengedhetetlen, hogy a promptod első mondata a legfontosabb dolgot írja le. Ne vesztegesd az időt a környezet vagy a hangulat leírásával, hanem azonnal térj a lényegre.


  Hogy megértsd, miről beszélek, nézzünk néhány példát, amikkel én is dolgozom:


  * `egy fiatal nő portréja`

  * `egy középkori város látképe`

  * `egy robot csata közben`


  Ezek a promptok egyértelműen és lényegre törően adják meg a fő témát. Ahogy a képet generálom, pontosan azt kapom, amit elvárok.


  A következő cikkemben a részletekre fókuszálok. Megnézzük, hogyan adhatunk a fő témához tulajdonságokat, környezetet és hangulatot, hogy még egyedibb és különlegesebb képeket alkossunk.


  Ha kedvet kaptál, készíts promptokat a [generátorom](https://aliceinbp.com/generator.html) segítségével! Íme egy példa, amit kipróbálhatsz:


  **Prompt:** A majestic griffin, perched on a crumbling ancient statue of an owl. Digital art, highly detailed fantasy illustration, cinematic lighting, vivid colors, cosmic dust, mystical. Starry night sky, full moon.


  ![](/src/blog-images/griffin.jpg)


  <!--EndFragment-->
body_en: >-
  <!--StartFragment-->


  <!--StartFragment-->


  In our last article, I talked about the structure of prompts, but now let’s dive a little deeper into the most important part: the **main subject**. This is the most important element of the image, and it's what the AI focuses on. What do you want to see? Be clear and to the point.


  If you want the AI to focus on the essence as accurately as possible, it is essential that the first sentence of your prompt describes the most important thing. Don't waste time describing the environment or the mood; get straight to the point.


  To understand what I'm talking about, let's look at some examples that I also work with:


  * `a portrait of a young woman`

  * `a medieval city skyline`

  * `a robot in battle`


  These prompts define the main subject clearly and concisely. As I generate the image, I get exactly what I expect.


  In my next article, I will focus on the details. We will see how we can add attributes, environment, and mood to the main theme to create even more unique and special images.


  If you feel inspired, create prompts using [my generator](https://aliceinbp.com/generator.html)! Here’s an example you can try:


  **Prompt:** A majestic griffin, perched on a crumbling ancient statue of an owl. Digital art, highly detailed fantasy illustration, cinematic lighting, vivid colors, cosmic dust, mystical. Starry night sky, full moon.


  <!--EndFragment-->


  ![](/src/blog-images/griffin.jpg)


  <!--EndFragment-->
---

Commit message:

Update Blog “2025-08-21-map-date-thu-aug-21-2025-20-21-28-gmt-0200-közép-európai-nyári-idő-title_hu-a-tökéletes-prompt-titka-a-fókuszálás-művészete-fő-téma-body_hu-startfragment-n-na-legutóbbi-cikkünkben-már-meséltem-a-promptok-felé”

blog/2025-08-21-map-date-thu-aug-21-2025-20-21-28-gmt-0200-közép-európai-nyári-idő-title_hu-a-tökéletes-prompt-titka-a-fókuszálás-művészete-fő-téma-body_hu-startfragment-n-na-legutóbbi-cikkünkben-már-meséltem-a-promptok-felé.md, after:

---
title_hu: "A prompt szíve: a fő téma"
title_en: "The Heart of the Prompt: The Main Subject"
date: 2025-08-21T18:21:28.491Z
image: /src/blog-images/logofejlec.png
body_hu: >-
  <!--StartFragment-->


  *A legutóbbi cikkünkben már meséltem a promptok felépítéséről, de most merüljünk el egy kicsit mélyebben a legfontosabb elemében: a **fő témában**. Ez a kép központi eleme, az, amire az AI fókuszál. Egyértelműnek és lényegre törőnek kell lennie, mintha a generátor gondolataiba látnál bele.*


  Ha azt szeretnéd, hogy az AI a lehető legpontosabban a lényegre fókuszáljon, elengedhetetlen, hogy a promptod első mondata a legfontosabb dolgot írja le. Ne vesztegesd az időd a környezet vagy a hangulat leírásával, hanem azonnal térj a lényegre. Néha ugyanis a gép is hajlamos elkalandozni, ha nem irányítod a szavakkal.


  Hogy megértsd, miről beszélek, nézzünk néhány példát:


  * `egy fiatal nő portréja`

  * `egy középkori város látképe`

  * `egy robot csata közben`


  Ezek a promptok egyértelműen és lényegre törően adják meg a fő témát. Ahogy a képeket generálom, pontosan azt kapom, amit elvárok. Persze, később finomítunk, és hozzáadunk még részleteket.


  A következő cikkemben pontosan erre fókuszálok majd. Megnézzük, hogyan adhatunk a fő témához **tulajdonságokat, környezetet** és **hangulatot**, hogy még egyedibb és különlegesebb képeket alkossunk.


  Ha kedvet kaptál, használd bátran a [**promptgenerátorom**!](https://aliceinbp.com/generator.html) Itt van egy példa, amit kipróbálhatsz:


  **Prompt:** `A majestic griffin, perched on a crumbling ancient statue of an owl. Digital art, highly detailed fantasy illustration, cinematic lighting, vivid colors, cosmic dust, mystical. Starry night sky, full moon.`


  ![](/src/blog-images/griffin.jpg)


  <!--EndFragment-->
body_en: >-
  <!--StartFragment-->


  *In my last article, I talked about the structure of prompts. Now, let’s dive a little deeper into the most important element: the **main subject**. This is the core of the image, what the AI focuses on. It needs to be clear and to the point, as if you're peering directly into the generator’s mind.*


  If you want the AI to focus on the essence as accurately as possible, it's essential that the first sentence of your prompt describes the most important thing. Don't waste time describing the environment or the mood; get straight to the point. The machine can be a bit like an easily distracted person sometimes if you don't guide it with your words.


  To help you understand what I mean, let's look at a few examples that I work with:


  * `a portrait of a young woman`

  * `a medieval city skyline`

  * `a robot in battle`


  These prompts clearly and concisely define the main subject. As I generate the images, I get exactly what I expect. Of course, we'll refine them later by adding more details.


  In my next article, I will focus on exactly that. We'll see how to add **characteristics, environment**, and **mood** to the main subject to create even more unique and special images.


  If you feel like giving it a try, feel free to use my **prompt generator**! Here’s an example you can experiment with:


  **Prompt:** `A majestic griffin, perched on a crumbling ancient statue of an owl. Digital art, highly detailed fantasy illustration, cinematic lighting, vivid colors, cosmic dust, mystical. Starry night sky, full moon.`


  ![](/src/blog-images/griffin.jpg)


  <!--EndFragment-->
---
